# Kusama News - March 2024

# Kusama Revolutionizes Blockchain with Coretime Sale and Parachain Expansion

March 2024 has unfolded significant developments in the Kusama network -
governance refinements, technical advancements, and the expansion of its
ecosystem. Known as the canary network, Kusama continues to pioneer in the
blockchain sector, laying groundwork for future Web3 progressions.

## Kusama Pioneers with OpenGov Governance Upgrade

In a trailblazing move, Kusama launched its improved on-chain governance system,
OpenGov, this month. This development accelerates decision-making processes and
promotes a higher voter turnout, indicating a correlation between community
participation and swift execution of approved proposals.

In March, Referendum #263 was a key event that demonstrated this ability to
swiftly implement technical improvements through community consensus. OpenGov's
advancements have been well-received within the network, marking a promising new
era for blockchain governance.

## Kusama Parachain Auctions: Accelerating Blockchain Expansion

The Parachain landscape of Kusama witnessed substantial growth in March.
Memecoin Chain, focusing on meme-inspired tokens, has successfully secured a
slot until February 2025 with a winning bid of 234 KSM. Similarly, Basilisk, a
liquidity bootstrapping protocol, continues its operation as a parachain,
contributing to Kusama's diverse blockchain ecosystem.

## Kusama Unwraps Technical Progressions

A highlight in March was the successful execution of Kusama's first Agile
Coretime sale, designed by Polkadot founder Gavin Wood. This shift from the
previous parachain auction system saw all three available cores sold, generating
an impressive 70 KSM.

It paves the way for decentralized applications, allowing early-stage ventures
and developers to participate more flexibly. Parity Technologies celebrated this
achievement as an essential step towards Agile Coretime implementation on the
Polkadot mainnet.

## KSM Token Performance: Steady Amidst Market Volatility

While market volatility is rife, KSM, Kusama's native token, demonstrated
remarkable resilience. By mid-March, KSM was traded at about $28. With trading
volumes rising post the Agile Coretime sale, industry analysts link this market
stability to Kusama's ongoing technological advancements and its vital role as a
Polkadot testing trio.

## Projects Thrive in Kusama's Developer Ecosystem

Kusama's developer community showed enthusiastic participation in March,
alongside several new project launches. The implementation of new DeFi
protocols, active participation in governance discussions, and an increasing
interest from traditional financial entities all contributed to the vibrant
march month.

## Kusama: Setting Future Course

For the forthcoming months, the focus will be the fine-tuning of the Agile
Coretime model based on the outcomes of the initial auction. Implementation of
Asynchronous Backing is high on the agenda, aiming to enhance transaction
throughput and reduce block times.

Furthermore, the expansion of the Parachain ecosystem is planned, with
anticipated project launches to elevate the Kusama network's agility. Focus on
scalability solutions is also in the pipeline to accommodate the growing network
usage.

In essence, the course of March 2024 has been transformational for Kusama, with
key governance and tech advancements alongside ecosystem growth. Its constantly
innovating network stands at the forefront, promising exciting developments in
the world of decentralized systems.
