# Kusama News - September 2024

# Kusama Network Soars on Governance, Parachains, and Innovation: The September 2024 Scoop

In a flurry of dynamic activity in September 2024, Kusama, known as Polkadot's
edgier wildcard cousin, has made significant strides in various areas, from
governance modifications to blockchain expansion, all the while aggrandizing its
position as an effervescent epicenter for Web3 innovation.

## OpenGov Implementation: Stellar Governance Propels Kusama Ahead

Kusama's robust governance model has once again asserted its dominance in
decentralized decision-making. Several game-changing proposals made the rounds
this month, creating a buzz around network optimization and safeguarding. One
particular proposal, KIP-231, had resounding support making way for a revamped
validator selection system, promising a significant step towards
decentralization.

Moreover, Web3 Foundation, the principal supporters of the Kusama ecosystem,
announced a major network upgrade coded "Kusama Catalyst." This upgrade intends
to bolster transaction throughput by 30% while bringing down block times. The
network plans to execute this upgrade in early October, post its successful run
on Kusama's testnet.

## Parachain Auctions: The Growth Factor

The jamboree following the 24th parachain auction was the highlight of
September, as the decentralized finance protocol, KusamaFi, secured its slot
after an intense bidding process. With this addition, the Kusama network boasts
a staggering 42 active parachains, demonstrating the network's burgeoning
diversity and applicability.

Meanwhile, other parachains are creating waves of their own. Karura, Kusama's
DeFi cornerstone, unveiled a novel cross-chain liquidity protocol that
facilitates smooth asset transfers between Kusama and Ethereum-based networks.
The Bitcoin-pegged asset parachain, Kintsugi, reported a whopping 200% swell in
wrapped BTC (kBTC) circulation, signaling an escalating interest in cross-chain
Bitcoin employments.

## Technical Developments: Network Upgrade and Dynamic Expansion

A significant technical upgrade is on the pipeline, awaiting implementation in
early October. The anticipated "Kusama Catalyst" looks to drastically enhance
the network's potential. In tandem with this, a string of promising projects
building on Kusama exhibited technical superiority, further accentuating
Kusama's position as a hub for avant-garde blockchain applications.

## Market Performance: KSM Token Holds Firm

Amidst widespread market turmoil, Kusama's native token, KSM, stands resilient.
KSM is currently trading at $187, ticking up by 15% since the month's onset. The
trade volume is also witnessing a substantial surge, with daily averages hitting
north of $500 million across key exchanges. Traders attribute this bullish trend
to escalated parachain engagements, proficient governance, and flourishing
institutional interests in Kusama's bold approach to blockchain development.

## Developer Ecosystem: Projects Take Shape

Kusama's vibrant community houses some of the most active groups in the
blockchain universe. From educational schemes to technical grants, the Kusama
Council recently sanctioned funding for ten community-led projects, further
enriching the ecosystem dynamics. One standout initiative is the "Kusama
Builders Program," a collaboration with Web3 foundation, aiming to hone and
nurture developing projects on Kusama, offering them tech support, funding, and
expert coaching.

## Looking Forward: A Power-Packed Future

The stage is set for Kusama's continued growth and innovation. With the
impending implementation of the "Kusama Catalyst" upgrade, the network's
capabilities are expected to receive a considerable boost. Furthermore, the Web3
Foundation has insinuated plans for higher interoperability between Kusama and
other formidable blockchain networks. As Kusama continues to be Polkadot's
experiment field, its progress and learnings would create significant
reverberations in the larger blockchain industry. With Kusama leading from the
front, the future of decentralized technologies is electrifying.
