# Kusama News - November 2019

# "Kusama: A Key Player in Blockchain Innovation"

Bolstered by a flurry of activity in November, Kusama network, dubbed the "wild
cousin" of Polkadot, firmly establishes itself as an essential force in the
realm of blockchain. Kusama offers a robust playground for developers and
projects to face their trials and perfect their strategies before their final
plunge into Polkadot. The swift pace at which Kusama innovates and evolves
speaks volumes about its potential to revolutionize blockchain development and
governance.

## OpenGov Implementation: Kusama Embodies Agile Governance

This month witnessed Kusama's governance model's robustness, accommodating rapid
decision-making and network upgrades with several crucial proposals. The network
on November 12th brilliantly demonstrated its on-chain governance system's
nimbleness, successfully implementing its first forkless runtime upgrade. "Being
capable of upgrading the network without a hard fork revolutionizes protocol
improvement pace unheard of in traditional blockchain networks," opined Dr.
Gavin Wood, founder of Polkadot and Kusama.

## Parachain Auctions: Epicenter of Blockchain Growth

The competitive nature of Kusama's parachain slot auction witnessed an upswing
in interest, with several prestigious projects competing for slots. "The
parachain model is transfiguring how blockchain projects can proliferate and
interoperate," explained Ruitao Su, co-founder of Acala, a decentralized finance
(DeFi) hub planning to bid for a slot.

## Technical Developments: Kusama's Rapid Evolution

In response to swiftly evolving blockchain requirements, Kusama demonstrated its
ability to evolve rapidly, completing the upgrade in a mere 4 hours, thereby not
disrupting network operations. This dynamism sets it apart, offering a living
laboratory for projects to test and fine-tune their ideas.

## KSM Token's Market Performance: A Staggering Increase

Despite being experimental, Kusama's native token, KSM, exhibited impressive
resilience in the crypto markets. As of November 30th, KSM traded at roughly
$28, marking a remarkable 1,766% surge since its launch. "Kusama's price
performance, particularly in context to the broader market conditions, is
noteworthy," observed Crypto analyst Maria Rodriguez.

## Projects Building on Kusama: Developer Ecosystem Flourishes

November saw numerous innovative projects plan to build on Kusama. Robonomics, a
platform for integrating robots and smart devices into decentralized networks,
announced its intentions, generating significant buzz. Moreover, the Substrate
Builder's Program welcomed several new members, a testament to Kusama's
burgeoning ecosystem.

## Looking Forward: Bold Ambitions

Exiting 2019 on a high note, Kusama presents an ambitious roadmap for the coming
year, with significant milestones, including the full activation of parachains
and more refined network governance. Kusama's significant progress and thriving
ecosystem set the stage for a paradigm shift in blockchain technology in the
forthcoming year.
