# Kusama News - April 2021

# "Kusama Skyrockets: Parachain Auctions & Market Rise"

April marked a key point in Kusama's growth, a platform often referred to as
Polkadot's experimental "canary network." As the highly anticipated launch of
parachain auctions approached, the network saw a surge in development and
heightened interest in KSM, Kusama's native token.

## "OpenGov Adopts More Democratic Approach on Kusama"

In April, Kusama's on-chain governance made notable strides. Important proposals
came under discussion and were decided upon by KSM token holders. Validators on
the network were increased from 900 to 1000 following a whopping 99.8% approval.

The community showed further support for development by voting to allocate one
million KSM from the treasury reserved for parachain development teams. However,
a debated proposal for changing the auction format did not receive the same
support.

Alice Johnson, a participant in Kusama's governance, remarked, "We're seeing
firsthand how on-chain governance can shape a network's evolution. The lessons
learned here will be invaluable for Polkadot."

## "Kusama Parachain Auctions: Projects Battling for Blockchain Slots "

April demonstrated a surge of activity with numerous projects preparing for
Kusama parachains. Key among the aspirants were Karura and Moonriver, looking to
introduce a full suite of financial primitives and a fully Ethereum-compatible
smart contract parachain respectively. This anticipation resulted in a
staggering 200% increase in daily active addresses compared to the previous
month.

## "Kusama Tech Devs Push Positive Updates"

Preparing for the parachain auctions, the Kusama development team worked
tirelessly during April to ensure the network was ready. They performed
extensive testing of key upgrades, auction mechanisms, and the crowdloan
feature.

Founder Gavin Wood announced that â€œThe core parachain logic is now feature
complete. We are in the final stages of testing and auditing before we can
confidently launch parachains on Kusama."

## "KSM Token: Boom in Market Performance"

April also witnessed incessant growth in KSM's value, reaching an all-time high
of $621.71, translating to a staggering 107% gain within just two weeks. The
trading volume soared, too, with 24-hour volume exceeding $1 billion on multiple
occasions.

Alex Saunders, a cryptocurrency analyst, commented, "The prospect of locking up
KSM tokens to support parachain bids is creating a supply squeeze. Combined with
the influx of new projects and users, we're seeing a perfect storm for KSM price
appreciation."

## "Parachain Readiness Workshops Aid Developer Ecosystem"

As Kusama prepared for parachain auctions, workshops ran throughout April to
help projects brace for the upcoming auctions. Additionally, the Kusama Builders
Program launched, providing grants and mentorship to promising teams building in
the ecosystem.

## "Looking Forward"

With the anticipation around the parachain auctions persisting, the Kusama team
hinted at a possible commencement between May and June. Parachains going live
will be an exciting new phase for Kusama, especially given the level of interest
in KSM token and the influx of new projects.

Sarah Chen, Kusama community manager, encapsulated the sentiment, saying, "April
was just the beginning. The real excitement starts when those first parachains
go live. That's when we'll truly see what Kusama is capable of."
