# Kusama News - July 2021

# "Kusama Ignites Blockchain Revolution with Parachain Auctions and DeFi Boom"

July 2021 saw a significant turning point for the Kusama network as it unveiled
its first parachains through innovative auctions, incited growth in its
decentralized finance (DeFi) ecosystem, and observed an impressive rise in
market performance for its native token, KSM. This month of advancements
signifies a pivotal leap forward for the Kusama network, Polkadot's experimental
'canary network,' and the broader blockchain scene.

## "OpenGov Uplifts Kusama through Governance Overhaul"

Several crucial governance updates marked Kusama's development in July. Notably,
the community voting system greenlit an upgrade to the Statemine parachain,
Kusama's communal asset chain for fungible and non-fungible tokens. This
enhancement enables permissionless asset creation, advancing tokenization
potential on the network.

Dr. Gavin Wood, founder of Polkadot and Kusama, applauded the active community
involvement. "The robust participation in governance showcases the strength of
Kusama's decentralized decision-making process, an essential component of
network longevity."

## "Kusama Auctions Pave Way for Blockchain Expansion"

The headline event this month was the conclusion of Kusama's inaugural parachain
slot auctions. These auctions allow projects to secure a desired slot on the
Kusama relay chain, enabling them to function as independent blockchains with
shared security and intercommunication.

Karura emerged victorious in the first auction with a notable bid of over
500,000 KSM tokens. Mere hours after winning, the sister network of Acala, known
for its DeFi capabilities, was onboarded as Kusama's first fully operational
parachain. Enthusiastically following Karura's victory were Moonriver, Shiden,
Khala, and Bifrost, each securing their parachain slots in July.

Web3 Foundation researcher Alfonso Cevallos extolled the achievement, stating,
"The successful launching of parachains on Kusama highlights the strength of
Polkadot's architecture. This crucial step paves the way toward a multi-chain,
interoperable future."

## "Kusama Harnesses Technology Advances"

Developments in Kusama's technical sphere, particularly advances made in
cross-chain message passing (XCMP), stand out in July. A key functional feature
enabling seamless inter-parachain communication, XCMP is a step closer to being
fully operational after successful tests.

## "Surging KSM Token Defines Kusama's Market Boom"

The successful parachain auctions and thriving ecosystem has caused a spark in
the KSM token's market performance. In July, the token's value rose from
approximately $200 to peak above $280. Trading volume surged, exceeding $200
million in daily volumes, indicative of increasing market confidence in the
network's long-term potential.

Crypto analyst Maria Rodriguez agreed, "Kusama's July price action represents
market recognition of its crucial role within the Polkadot ecosystem. As more
parachains launch and the network's utility grows, I foresee continued bullish
pressure on KSM."

## "Kusama's Developer Ecosystem Flourishes with Innovative Projects"

Kusama's developer environment was thriving in July as projects such as
Robonomics, a platform for IoT and robotics, and Zeitgeist, a prediction market
protocol, made notable strides. These, alongside others, highlight Kusama's
potential as a sandbox for innovative projects.

## "Kusama's Evolution: A Look Ahead"

Looking to the future, plans for the second batch of parachain auctions are
already in motion with networks like Kilt Protocol and Calamari Network being
strong contenders. With key focus areas being cross-chain functionality
development, parachain performance optimization, and DeFi and NFT ecosystem
expansion, Kusama continues its journey of growth.

Bolstered by its successful parachain launches, DeFi explosion, community
engagement, and market performance, Kusama sits as a key participant in the
blockchain realm. Ethereum co-founder and Polkadot creator Dr. Gavin Wood spoke
on the exciting future: "July was a milestone month for Kusama, but it's only
the start. We're laying the foundations for a truly interoperable and scalable
blockchain future."
