# Kusama News - April 2020

# Dynamic Kusama Accelerates Blockchain Advancements Amidst Global Challenges

## Rapid Evolution, Project Adoptions, and Market Activity Underscore Kusamaâ€™s Strong Momentum

Despite global uncertainty, Kusama, the stepping-stone network for Polkadot,
advanced at an impressive pace in April 2020. The platform, which allows
developers to test and fine-tune blockchain features, experienced a surge in
development activity and project migrations, consistently proving its value in a
rapidly evolving sector.

## OpenGov Implementation: Governance Bolsters Kusama Groundwork

Kusama's governance models underwent significant change in April. The Kusama
Council approved an upgrade to runtime version 1050, facilitating enhanced
methods for validator selection, thereby boosting network security and
decentralization. Furthermore, the community voted to redirect additional
treasury resources towards development grants, thereby aiming to harness more
talent and advancement opportunities.

## Parachain Auctions: Kusama Blooms with Blockchain Growth

The blockchain sector witnessed an influx of new project launches in Kusama. One
such movement was the Uniarts Network, co-initiating the Parachain Auction
Launch (PAL), a decentralized NFT market aiming to bring more freedom to the art
industry. Plasm Network, a scalable application infrastructure platform, also
announced plans to deploy over Kusama, indicating the compelling advantages
offered by Kusama's platform.

## Technical Developments: Advancements Bolster Kusama Backbone

The month saw an array of technical enhancements from Parity Technologies to
Kusama's underpinning, the Substrate framework. Numerous updates, encompassing
WebAssembly runtime optimizations and cross-chain messaging system improvements,
seek to future-proof Kusama and ensure the platform remains on the vanguard of
blockchain evolution.

## Market Performance: Sterling Conduct Amidst Economic Turmoil

In April, the KSM token demonstrated remarkable resilience within a tumultuous
global economic landscape. Amidst a staggering levity in cryptocurrency
valuation, KSM found itself in positive territory, with an upward price
trajectory attracting significant investor attention.

## Developer Ecosystem: Kusama Continues to Attract Innovation

Kusama's appeal wasn't limited to its blockchain upgrades; projects actively
sought to plant their flags on the Kusama network. Acala, ChainX, and Robonomics
Networks announced plans to run their projects over Kusama, noting the
considerable potential for faster iterations over the platform before launch.

## Looking Forward: Glimpses of Kusama's Future

As Kusama continues to harden its links with Polkadot, the potential for more
breakthroughs in the blockchain sector amplifies. April's rapid growth and
technological advancements paint a promising picture for incoming months. Kusama
proved its steadfast position at the vanguard of this exciting new world,
unabated by the challenges put forth by the global socio-economic landscape.
