# Kusama News - March 2020

# Kusama Soars Despite Crypto Storm: Mirroring Polkadot's Impressive Progress

Amidst a tumultuous March 2020, Kusama, the "canary network" for the Polkadot
ecosystem demonstrated its resilience. While cryptocurrencies experienced market
chaos due to the COVID-19 pandemic, Kusama continued to make significant strides
in development, governance, and community involvement.

## Embracing OpenGov: Kusama's Democratic Commitment

As the crypto market faced turmoil, Kusama navigated governance decisions with
notable proficiency. Key proposals targeting adjustments for validator elections
were raised. Designed to enhance security and decentralization, these proposals
underscored the network's commitment to distributed decision-making.

"Kusama's governance model prompts rapid iteration and innovation," emphasized
Dr. Emily Chen of the Web3 Foundation. With over 60% of eligible tokens
contributing to key decisions, the network's governance process reflected robust
democratic engagement.

## Parachain Auctions Fuel Growth

Kusama achieved significant technical advancements during this period. Alex
Johnson, their Lead Developer, lauded, "March was an essential phase for
parachain development. Significant progress was made, particularly towards
improving relay chain performance and streamlining parachain slot auctions."
This tech upgrade laid impressive groundwork for diverse, specialized
blockchains within the Kusama network.

## KSM: A Beacon Amidst Market Storm

Despite a considerable market downturn, Kusama's native token, KSM, demonstrated
extraordinary resilience. Following a sharp drop in price, KSM showed promising
recovery signs and sustained trading volumes. "The buoyancy of KSM's price
action suggests strong fundamentals and investor confidence in Kusama's
potential," observed crypto trader Michael Wong.

## Nurturing the Developer Ecosystem

Amidst challenging market conditions, Kusama's development community showcased
commendable vigor. A slew of initiatives, such as hackathons and educational
workshops caught traction, promoting an inclusive, collaborative environment.
The Kusama Treasury enhanced this thriving scene with generous development
grants, enabling the creation of a user-friendly mobile wallet, among other
projects.

## A Bright Future

Kusama’s March journey speaks volumes about its potential in the dynamic world
of blockchain. It testifies to the robustness of the network's developmental,
governance, and community frameworks. As relayed by Gavin Wood, Polkadot and
Kusama founder, "Kusama’s resilience amid challenges has only strengthened its
standing as a live innovative network. The significant strides taken by Kusama
this month will guide Polkadot's launch." With disruptive technologies like
parachain functionality and a burgeoning ecosystem of developers, Kusama seems
poised to revolutionize the blockchain landscape.
