# Kusama News - November 2019

# Kusama Network Thrives; Polkadot's Wild Cousin Shines

In the world of blockchain technology, the Kusama network rapidly gained
traction in its second month of operation, establishing itself as the premier
testing field for Polkadot's future network. Launched by Polkadot founder Gavin
Wood, Kusama is the playground where developers can safely test their
applications before running them on the main platform.

## Kusama Unveils Upgraded OpenGov Infrastructure

On the 4th of November, Kusama reached a crucial governance milestone, achieving
its first successful validator set rotation. This step signifies a prominent
overhaul in Kusama's transition to a fully decentralized proof-of-stake network.
Kusama Council, the network's governance body, has also seen a persistent
increase in activity, with numerous governance proposals submitted, voted, and
implemented.

## Parachain Auctions Spearhead Blockchain Expansion

As November rolled on, Kusama geared up for the launch of parachains,
specialized blockchains that will tether to Kusama's main relay chain. This saw
teams like Acala Network, a DeFi protocol planning to deploy their parachain on
Kusama under the name "Karura." The Web3 Foundation's David Hawig had positive
comments regarding this, noting the high interest from teams a solid endorsement
of Kusama's chaotic yet productive testnet environment.

## Technical Developments Level Up Network Performance

In terms of technical improvements, Kusama unleashed several upgrades improving
the network's runtime, significantly boosting its performance and broadening its
scope. New modifications included the democracy module's updations and important
refinements to the nomination and validation process.

## KSM Token Activity Gains Steam

The active validator set and broader Kusama community experienced significant
growth in November. With over 130 active validators and hundreds more ready to
join in, the network's security and decentralization promise gains potency.
Kusama's native KSM token also saw surging interest from traders and investors
due to increasing liquidity across different exchanges.

## Developer Ecosystem Expands with Innovative Projects

Kusama's fast-paced progress didn't end there. Numerous unusual projects, such
as Robonomics Network and Crust Network, announced their plans to integrate with
Kusama, positioning the network as a launchpad for groundbreaking blockchain
applications. Moreover, the Kusama Treasury funded various community
initiatives, emphasizing the network's commitment to promote productivity.

## Looking Forward: What's Hanging in the Balance?

As Kusama enters its third month of operation, all eyes are locked in for the
impending parachain deployments. The Web3 Foundation suggests that the first
parachain slot auctions could unfold as early as Q1 2020. Other items on
Kusama's agenda include additional refinements to the validation mechanisms, an
expansion of on-chain governance capabilities, and the implementation of
cross-chain messaging protocols. Gavin Wood's concluding words give us a glimpse
into Kusama's skyrocketing momentum, "Kusama is exceeding our expectations in
terms of both technical performance and community engagement. It's providing
invaluable insights that will directly benefit Polkadot's development and launch
strategy."
