# Kusama News - April 2023

# Kusama Springs Forward with Major Developments in April 2023

Kusama, Polkadot's experimental canary network, reached new heights in April
2023, marked by several crucial developments in blockchain growth, technical
innovations, market performance, and governance changes.

## Kusama Embraces OpenGov Implementation for Enhanced Governance

In April, the Kusama community took intentional strides toward transformative
governance changes. The most notable development was the introduction of a
governance proposal, titled "Making Kusama Chaotic Again". The proposal
advocated bringing Zero-Knowledge (ZK) primitives to Kusama, supporting
efficient execution of ZK functions, improving on-chain randomness generation,
fostering privacy-based technologies, and the creation of a Kusama community
manifesto. These proposals aim to cement Kusama's identity as an experimental
and innovative blockchain network.

## Kusama Continues to Soar with Parachain Auctions

In April, the 30th parachain auction marked an essential step forward in
Kusama's mission to constantly expand and foster interoperability. Turing
Network, a platform focused on DeFi and payment automation, seized the latest
slot contributing substantially to Kusama's diverse DeFi capabilities. Turing
Network is expected to leverage the Cross-Consensus Message Format to enhance
cross-chain automation for other parachains.

## Kusama Focuses on Core Technical Developments

The month of April saw a flurry of critical technical developments on Kusama.
Composable Finance introduced Centauri, an implementation of the
Inter-Blockchain Communication (IBC) protocol bridging Polkadot and Kusama,
marking the first use of IBC outside the Cosmos ecosystem. Centauri facilitates
seamless and secure fund transfers between platforms, presenting vast
opportunities to explore cross-chain DeFi and asset transfers.

## Market Performance: KSM Token Show Resilience

Despite a bearish cryptocurrency market in April, Kusama's native token, KSM,
maintained its stability, fluctuating between the $30-$40 range. Market experts
credited this robust performance to the ongoing parachain auctions and KSM
utility's steady increase within the Kusama ecosystem.

## Kusama’s Developer Ecosystem Sees Burgeoning Growth

Kusama's ecosystem experienced stellar growth as several projects built on its
knock-on effect. Significant developments included integrations by Karura, a
significant DeFi hub, and substantial growth reported by Moonriver, a platform
offering Ethereum compatibility. These influxes emphasize Kusama's pivotal role
as an experimental platform for new technologies.

## On The Horizon: Looking Forward

As Kusama steps into the next quarter of 2023, the future looks bright. The
successful progress of parachain auctions and the burgeoning ecosystem of
innovative projects indicates a forward-moving network. The focus in the coming
months will be on expanding cross-chain capabilities, the DeFi ecosystem,
privacy-preserving technologies, and fostering community-driven initiatives.
With its innovative position within the Polkadot ecosystem, Kusama’s influence
will continue to shape the future of decentralized technologies.
