# Kusama News - February 2022

# "Kusama Takes Flight: Parachains Expand & Innovation Skyrockets"

Expectedly, Kusama, Polkadot's experimental "canary network," experienced robust
growth and innovation throughout February 2022. The network saw vivid expansion
in its parachain ecosystem, fueled by technical advancements, new parachain
auctions, and a flurry of development activity. Kusama continued to entice
developers and users with its dynamic capabilities.

### "Towards Democratic Blockchain: Kusama's OpenGov in Action"

This February, Kusama's decentralized governance took center stage. Essential
proposals were voted upon, and issues like the allocation of treasury funds for
ecosystem projects were keenly debated. A pivotal proposal to increase validator
rewards spurred extensive discourse among KSM token holders. This spirited
exchange underscored the efficacy of Kusama's community-led decision-making
ethos. An anonymous council member remarked, "Our governance process allows
brisk experimentation. We can implement changes faster than traditional systems
while maintaining community consensus."

### "The Unstoppable Rise: Parachain Auctions Power Kusama Growth"

In February, it was Kusama's parachain slot auctions that attracted the
limelight. As of early February, 13 parachains had already been integrated into
the Kusama network, and more auctions were in the pipeline. The winners included
Turing Network and Mangata X, exhibiting the high demand for Kusama's interchain
capabilities. "We're witnessing innovation at its best on Kusama's parachains,"
observes Gavin Wood, the founder of Polkadot and Kusama.

### "Unlocking Potential: Kusama's Technical Developments Shape the Future"

Kusama's technical enhancements continued to shine in February, with fresh
updates to fortify cross-parachain interoperability and messaging. Furthermore,
progress was made on 'asynchronous backing' to significantly augment
transactional throughput, a crucial requirement for supporting an expanding
ecosystem. An unnamed core developer shared, "Kusama facilitates a live test
environment for bleeding-edge features, directly feeding into Polkadot's
roadmap."

### "Navigating Market Swells: KSM Token Holds Steady Amid Volatility"

The volatile cryptocurrency market did not deter Kusama's native KSM token,
which exhibited resilience throughout the month. With the token price
fluctuating between $160 and $200, the trading volume experienced a noticeable
uptick, especially during parachain auctions. A crypto fund manager said,
"Sophisticated players are entering the market, drawn by Kusama's unique
position as a Polkadot testbed."

### "The Developer Playground: NFT and DeFi Ignite Kusama Ecosystem"

February also ushered in robust activity from non-fungible token (NFT) and
decentralized finance (DeFi) projects, notably Karura and RMRK protocol. Karura
proclaimed strong growth in total locked value, while RMRK presented a novel
'nested NFTs' concept. RMRK's founder Bruno Skvorc enthused, "We're only just
beginning to explore what's possible with NFTs on Kusama."

### A Look Ahead at Kusama's Path in 2022

Looking amid the turbulence, the Kusama community anticipates exciting
developments and challenges. The agenda includes onboarding additional
parachains, further enhancing interchain communication, improving developer
tools, and exploring fresh use cases beyond DeFi and NFTs. "Kusama stands at the
edge of innovation in blockchain, shaping the future of Web3 and decentralized
systems for years to come," concludes Gavin Wood. As Kusama navigates into these
uncharted territories, its exploratory spirit is set to inspire yet more
trailblazing efforts within the Polkadot ecosystem.
