# Kusama News - August 2022

# Kusama Soars in August: Parachains, Tech Upgrades, and Robust Governance

In August 2022, Kusama, Polkadot's pioneering network, surged forward on the
wings of progress. With a series of vital ecosystem enhancements including novel
parachain auctions, intriguing technical developments, and robust governance
changes, Kusama continues to underscore its versatility as a vital proving
ground for blockchain's most innovative solutions.

## OpenGov Paves the Way for Active Participation

Byline: Damian Brown

Kusama's commitment to OpenGov took center stage in August, as key governance
changes went into effect. Pioneering the implementation of asynchronous backing,
this remarkable initiative has significantly optimized block production times
and network throughput. Gavin Wood, Founder of Polkadot and Kusama, hailed this
upgrade as a crucial leap towards the achievement of scalability without
compromising security. A mid-August Kusama Council nod to a runtime improvement
initiative further emphasized the agility of Kusama's governance process, laying
the groundwork for an expansive campaign of network optimization.

## Expansion Ahoy: Parachain Auctions Drive Growth

Byline: Mara Collins

In August, Kusama hosted its 11th parachain slot auction, an event that saw
Kintsugi BTC secure close to 200,000 KSM in community endorsement. With a total
of 12 active chains, Kusama's diverse capabilities loom larger than ever.
Previous slot auction winner Parallel Heiko achieved significant integration
with the Kusama Relay Chain in early August, firmly establishing their DeFi
protocols in an active, real-world setting.

## The Cutting Edge of Tech: Kusama Forges Ahead

Byline: Ezekiel Ward

At the vanguard of technology, Kusama continued to pioneer world-class
enhancements throughout August. Asynchronous backing represented the apex of a
series of technical developments, which also saw the approval of runtime upgrade
proposals and a remarkable thrust towards a more agile and robust governance
process. The open-source platform remains a hub of innovation, driving the
advancement of tech-focused initiatives with gravity and clarity.

## Market Performance: KSM Marches On

Byline: Hadley Vincent

KSM, Kusama's native token, opened the month at an impressive $54. Despite
showing fluctuations that mirrored wider market trends, KSM rallied around key
governance votes and parachain auction conclusions, underpinning the continued
growth of its market position.

## Developer Ecosystem Thrives on Kusama

Byline: Ravi O'Connor

Kusama-based projects took significant strides in August, spearheaded by Karura,
Kusama's DeFi hub, which introduced new yield farming opportunities and expanded
its cross-chain features. Meanwhile, the Kusama deployment of the smart contract
platform Moonriver reported a 30% surge in daily active addresses and notable
growth in total value locked within its ecosystem. This flurry of development
activity underscores the growing appeal of Kusama among blockchain developers.

## Looking Forward

As Kusama forges ahead, the community eagerly anticipates the next set of
parachain auctions in September, which promises an array of high-profile
contenders. Beyond that, the tech roadmap signals even more ambitious upgrades,
signifying a bright future for the ever-dynamic and intrepid canary network. As
Parity Technologies lead developer Shawn Tabrizi puts it: "We're continually
pushing the boundaries of what's possible in blockchain scalability and
interoperability." Indeed, Kusama's meteoric rise promises even greater heights
in the future. As the crypto-sphere charts its course through uncharted waters,
Kusama stands as a beacon of innovation, fearlessly exploring new frontiers.
