# Kusama News - December 2019

# Kusama Unleashes its Experimental Blockchain, Fuels Internet 3.0 Progress

## Polkadot's Canary Network Kusama Takes Flight, Cheered by Crypto Community

Kusama, the brainchild of Ethereum co-founder Dr. Gavin Wood and the Web3
Foundation, made an impactful debut in December 2019. Known as Polkadot's
"canary" network, Kusama stands to revolutionize Web3 dapp development with its
experimental flair.

## OpenGov Implementation Heralds New Governance Era

Byline: Jonathan Mayers

Kusama's launch from a restricted, proof-of-authority network to a dynamic,
decentralized proof-of-stake system set a new tone for blockchain governance.
The transition has seen more validators join the network, bolstering its
security.

"The governance feature gives KSM holders power to manipulate the network's
parameters. This allows high-paced innovation that's too precarious for a
Polkadot mainnet", said Web3's founder, Dr. Gavin Wood. Kusama truly embraces
chaos, pushing the boundaries of network resilience.

## Ambitious Developers Eager for Parachain Auctions

Byline: Hannah Wilson

Fueled by unique opportunities, developers flocked to Kusama's ecosystem, ready
to bid for the much-anticipated parachain auctions in December 2019.

Platforms like the Acala Network's DeFi hub and Chainlink's oracle network were
swift in their plans to deploy parachains on Kusama. This comes as no surprise
as Dieter Fishbein, head of Web3 Foundation's grant program, highlighted:
"Kusama's lower entry barriers as compared to Polkadot makes it a hunting ground
for innovative startups."

## Technical Developments Serve as Blockchain Milestones

Byline: John Stone

Technical updates loaded Kusama with promising features. With claimable KSM
tokens, validators and investors took an active part in secure, on-chain
governance whilst exploring the network's offerings.

## Market Performance Omens KSM Growth

Byline: James Richards

Kusama trading went live in December, and despite an initial dip, signs of
resilience surfaced by the end of the month. However, market analysts predict an
upturn rooted in ecosystem growth and Kusama's highly experimental nature.

"Kusama remains largely undiscovered. But as more projects go live, it could
emerge as a major blockchain player," stated seasoned trader Alex Johnson.

## Developer Ecosystem Thrives among Projects Building on Kusama

Byline: Emma Holmes

Kusama saw a steady influx of builders and enthusiasts. Workshops covered
critical topics such as validation and governance, boosting participant
confidence.

Community-owned social platforms flared up, cheering for Kusama’s “Expect Chaos”
ideology. These actions fostered stronger collaborative ties that promise to
fuel Kusama's growth.

## Looking Forward

As 2019 wound down, Kusama's comprehensive plan for 2020 sparked enthusiasm.
Launching initial parachain slot auctions, continuing with technical
advancements, increasing developer and project influx, and a staunch conviction
in Polkadot's underlying technology- these bold strategies have set the stage
for Kusama's shared yet distinct journey.

In the words of Bruno Škvorc, Head of Strategy at Web3 Foundation, "Kusama's
ability to encourage high-speed innovation while managing risks makes it an
indispensable player in the blockchain sphere." As the world is keenly watching
Kusama's 'canary in the coal mine' story, one thing’s for sure - its success
story could mean a significant leap for blockchain interoperability and
scalability.
