# Kusama News - February 2023

# Kusama Revolution: Tech Breakthroughs Propel Interoperability & Expansion for February 2023

February 2023 marked a turning point for Kusama, the Polkadot-driven
experimental network, as it ventured into new terrain, encompassing remarkable
growth in blockchain interoperability and ecosystem extension. Generating
innovative solutions and enhancements, Kusama has carved a niche for itself
welcoming developers and emerging projects with its rapid evolution.

## OpenGov Implementation: Kusama Forges Ahead with Governance Boost

By Lea Thompson, Blockchain Times Correspondent

In February, Kusama swung its governance axes toward streamlining the network's
functionality. Various governance proposals were tabled aiming at bolstering
network security, enhancing parachain interoperability, and fine-tuning the
auction mechanism for potential parachain spaces - all attracting significant
community interaction.

A surge in participation for Krest's successful crowdloan during its parachain
auction was a testament to the active role the community plays in the network's
evolution. These concerted efforts project a promising future—where developments
are driven by the collective community rather than a centralized authority.

## Kusama Parachain Auctions Soar: Capturing Ecosystem Emergence

By Charles Simpson, Blockchain Times Analyst

In a significant achievement, krest, the canary chain of peaq, triumphed in
Kusama's 72nd parachain auction. The project won substantial backing from the
community with 5,522 KSM tokens and 311 contributors supporting it. This
successful investment awarded krest a 48-week lease—from March 7, 2023, to
February 15, 2024—indicating the start of the network's launch within the Kusama
ecosystem.

Furthermore, krest's incorporation into Kusama cemented a significant milestone
for projects building on peaq by providing them an operative network to deploy
and scrutinize their applications—an auxiliary wave to propel innovation in
blockchain and IoT.

## Kusama Tech Developments: Making Interoperability a Reality

By Dave Harper, Blockchain Times Tech Writer

Kusama flagged off February 2023 by flipping the switch on its BEEFY consensus
protocol. The protocol sought to enhance Kusama's interoperability prowess,
particularly with Ethereum and other non-EVM networks. The update, which aimed
at efficient verification across all parachains in the Polkadot ecosystem, took
a jab at one major challenge - a seamless interaction between varying networks.

This technical surge was particularly pronounced with two vital
bridges—Snowbridge and Hyperbridge—allowing for superior interaction between
Kusama, Ethereum, and emerging networks. Such advances put Kusama one step
closer to its vision of a closely-knit blockchain universe.

## Market Performance: Rising Slow but Steady for KSM

By Grace Sullivan, Blockchain Times Financial Analyst

Despite achieving several tech milestones, Kusama's native token, KSM had a slow
uphill climb in keeping up with the broader crypto market. As of February's end,
KSM traded at approximately $48, marking a 25% lift from the previous
month—placing it at 156th in the global cryptocurrency ranks.

This performance draws attention towards the discord between the network's
technical progress and market valuations—a phenomenon presenting challenges and
opportunities alike for project teams and investors.

## Developer Ecosystem: Kusama Debuts New Directions

By Sam Burton, Blockchain Times Tech Specialist

The month witnessed key advancements for projects built on Kusama. SubSocial, a
decentralized social network, unveiled intentions to strengthen integration with
other parachains, hinting at a more comprehensive social media experience within
the ecosystem. Concurrently, KILT Protocol, a decentralized identity tool, made
headway with fresh features for credential issuance and verification.

These instances underscored Kusama's mandate to provide a fertile ground for
developers to cultivate their projects—an attribute setting it apart from the
pack.

## Looking Forward

As we venture deeper into 2023, the Kusama team envisages concentrating on
intensifying interoperability, cultivating diversity in network projects, and
blueprinting scale-up solutions. The roaring success of BEEFY protocol ushers in
a promising future of advanced cross-chain applications and services.

Simultaneously, the team also signals forthcoming enhancements in governance
mechanisms—paving the path for a more decentralized, community-driven network.
These concerted efforts, combined with its vigour in technological exploration,
set up Kusama as a banner-bearer in the ever-evolving sphere of Web3
technologies.
