# Kusama News - December 2020

# Kusama Surges Ahead in December - Blockchain Innovation Soars

As the curtain dropped on 2020, Kusama, dubbed the "canary network" for
Polkadot, lit the path ahead for blockchain evolution. December, strategically
marked with a string of technological breakthroughs, escalating ecosystem
engagement, and anticipation for parachain functionality, hinted of a bright
future for Kusama as well as the Polkadot network.

## Article 1: OpenGov Implementation - Kusama Kicks off Validator Set Expansion

December 9, 2020 marked a significant stride in Kusama's governance initiatives.
A gradual muster-up of its active validator set took off, adding one validator
with each passing era. The grand vision is to amass 900 dedicated validators to
augment network security and decentralization. Kusama aims to be Polkadot's
testing ground, evaluating scalability and governance mechanisms before
full-scale deployment on Polkadot.

## Article 2: Parachain Auctions - Rococo Testnet Breaks Ground

As December unfolded, a crucial development was the launch of Rococo V1,
Polkadot's newest parachain testnet. This development crystalized hopes of
introducing full parachain functionality throughout Kusama and Polkadot. Plasm
Network grabbed headlines by becoming the first project on Rococo V1, a key leap
forward as the testnet's codebase is scheduled for deployment on both Kusama and
Polkadot mainnet.

## Article 3: Technical Developments - Solid Progress Amid Anticipation

Among technical enhancements, the most significant was the anticipated
deployment of parachains - a long-awaited expansion initiated in the August 2020
rollout plan. Constant refinement within Kusama's technical infrastructure
proved its worth as a live, experimental environment, paving the way for
upgrades and features slated later for Polkadot.

## Article 4: Market Performance - Kusama Token Makes a Splash

Kusama (KSM) weathered a relatively stable December, despite the overall crypto
market's bull-run. Opening at an estimated $46.27, by the month's close, KSM
stood resilient at around $72.71, marking an approximately 57% growth. Trading
volumes spiking beyond $20 million on multiple days reflected heightened
interest in Kusama, seen both as a speculative asset and a pivotal cog in
Polkadot's ecosystem.

## Article 5: Developer Ecosystem - Clear Skies Ahead for Project Development

December also witnessed Kusama's ecosystem burgeoning, with numerous
up-and-coming projects making headway. KILT Protocol, in particular, declared
their own deviation towards parachain deployment, clearly resonating with
Kusama's experimental ethos. Beyond that, Kusama's inbuilt treasury has
fortified 40 proposals since inception, delivering a cumulative 62,222.92 KSM,
fueling continuous innovation and growth within its system.

## Looking Forward

As we usher in 2021, anticipation brews for the launch of parachain auctions on
Kusama. Serving as the litmus test, the success of these auctions and this
functionality on Kusama will lay the critical groundwork for deployment on
Polkadot. This positions Kusama as more than just a testnet, but an invaluable
network in its own right, allowing ambitious projects to revolutionize the
blockchain technology landscape.

In conclusion, as December 2020 bid goodbye, Kusama cemented itself as a
lynchpin within the Polkadot ecosystem. With the imminent parachain
functionality, an expanding pool of projects, and escalating market cognizance,
Kusama is firmly positioned to shape the future of blockchain interoperability
and scalability. As the industry shifts focus to the new year, Kusama stands
ready to lead the charge in blockchain innovation and experimentation.
