# Kusama News - July 2022

# Kusama Ignites July with Parachain Auctions and Technical Boosts

## Polkadot's Wild Canary Takes Flight with OpenGov, Parachain Growth, and KSM Market Thrills

Kusama, deemed Polkadot's 'wild cousin', embodied July 2022 with its riveting
advancements like prolonged parachain auctions, the implementation of OpenGov
governance changes, assortment of new project deployments, and the rollercoaster
ride of KSM token prices.

## OpenGov Implementation Ushers Kusama into Democratic Era

In a significant stride towards decentralized governance, Kusama's community
voted in favor of rolling out a new governance model, termed as "OpenGov".
OpenGov, which signifies a major departure from hierarchical council and
committee structures, encourages more proposal tracks to function concurrently.

Authentication of OpenGov has paved the way for a robust model of community
participation, amplifying roles of KSM token holders in deciding Kusama's
future. OpenGov has ushered in a fresh chapter of community decision-making,
triggering similar changes in Polkadot as well.

Technical improvements like the launch of Statemine upgrade engineered to
provide superior functionalities to parachains were other exciting developments.

## Parachain Auctions Spearhead Ecosystem Expansion

Kusama's relay chain continued with its Parachain slot auctions in July 2022, a
series that started one year ago. The number of active parachains soared to a
cumulative total of twelve, signified exuberant interest from developers seeking
to leverage Kusama's innovative infrastructure.

Highlighted auctions featured prime contenders like the Calamari Network
focusing on privacy, the Kilt Protocol orienting towards decentralized
identification solutions, and Shiden Network, a smart contract platform for
decentralized applications.

## KSM Neck-to-Neck with Volatile Market

July observed gyrations in KSM token prices along with the broader cryptomarket
trends. KSM token, starting July at $50, underwent significant oscillations.
Coin Price Forecast projected the KSM token to top $50 by year-end, with
optimistic prices proposed for upcoming years.

Trading volumes maintained strong grip, signaling sustained investor interest
despite volatile markets. The performance trendline of KSM token emerged as a
popular metric for understanding sentiment towards the overall Polkadot
ecosystem.

## Developers Push Kusama Boundaries

Several innovative projects marked their presence in Kusama in July. Notably,
Snow was focused on bringing the ICON blockchain's technology to the
Polkadot-Kusama ecosystem. Snow expressed ambitions to compete in future
parachain auctions.

Another exciting development was Mogwai, a gaming project linked with the Ajuna
Network, expressing its intent to debut on Bajun, Ajuna's canary network on
Kusama. This was expected to bring new blockchain-based gaming experiences to
the Kusama ecosystem.

## Kusama Eyes Future Horizons

As July reached its end, Kusama stayed geared up for key upcoming developments
like parachain scalability improvements. A plan for "Asynchronous Backing",
advancing further enhancements to the parachain consensus protocol, was also in
the pipeline.

The community also awaited the deployment of common-good parachains equipped to
provide shared infrastructure for the whole ecosystem. In working towards these
goals and continuing to shape the future of blockchain technology, Kusama thus
remains at the forefront of decentralized networks.
