# Kusama News - September 2021

# Headline: Kusama Blooms in September: Progress Marks a Glowing Future

In September 2021, the Kusama blockchain ecosystem propelled forward with key
developments, highlighted by robust parachain auctions and a flurry of
technological milestones that ushered in a new wave of progressive advancements.

**OpenGov Implementation: Embracing Democracy in Code**

Kusama, known for its "expect chaos" mentality, steered governance changes
towards enhancing democratic participation. Staying true to its commitment for
an open and community-driven approach, it saw heightened activities surrounding
governance proposals.

Members of the Kusama community participated ardently in shaping the network's
future, contributing to discussions and decision-making. Swift responses to
referendum proposals and active participation in treasury motions have been
testament to the network's democratic ethos; a stand that ensures Kusama's
long-term success and survivability in an increasingly competitive industry.

**Parachain Auctions: Kusama Expanding its Wings**

September marked significant growth for the Kusama ecosystem through its highly
anticipated parachain auctions. A successful crowdloan campaign saw KILT
Protocol securing a parachain slot, hitting their maximum cap of 220,000 KSM
with the support from 12,211 contributors. This not only indicated the growing
trust in Kusama’s parachain model, but also marked a major stepping-stone for
KILT Protocol, which will now help fuel future decentralization efforts.

**Technical Developments: Propelling Forward with Innovation**

Inside the engine room, the Kusama network witnessed substantial technical
upgrades. Serving as a canary-chain for the larger Polkadot network, Kusama
proved invaluable for testing and refining Polkadot-bound projects. This
symbiotic relationship between the two chains facilitates smoother transitions
to the main Polkadot network.

The successful parachain auctions underpinned Kusama's role in precipitating
Polkadot's climb to scalability. The hardier Kusama is stress-tested, the safer
and smoother Polkadot’s rollout will be.

**Market Performance: A Bullish Signal for KSM**

With the hive of activity surrounding the parachain auctions, KSM, Kusama's
native token, too made notable strides during the month. The token saw a
considerable surge in its price, close to 30% within a 24-hour period, making
its way to a two-month to nearly $400. This surge underscores intensified
investor interest in Kusama and their anticipation for its parachain potential.

**Developer Ecosystem: A Haven for Innovators**

Beyond, KILT Protocol, other projects also delivered promising progress in the
Kusama ecosystem. Karura, Kusama’s DeFi hub, expanded its offerings while
seamlessly integrating with other parachains. Simultaneously, Moonriver went
live, opening new frontiers for both, developers and users. As they leverage
Kusama's potent infrastructure, these projects are shaping innovatively
disruptive solutions that stretch across sectors of identity management,
decentralized finance and cross-chain operability.

**Looking Forward**

Bright prospects loom ahead for Kusama. The success of parachain auctions and
the onboarding of new and innovative projects are indicators of perpetual
growth. As Kusama continues to be an invaluable tool in the development and
refinement of Polkadot, the coming months might see more parachain auctions,
mature existing projects and introduce new cross-chain capabilities. Kusama is
indeed, succinctly poised on the precipice of driving uncharted territories of
blockchain innovation while enabling a truly decentralized and interoperable
web3 future.
