# Kusama News - July 2021

Kusama Blockchain Revolution: Parachain Auctions Spark New Wave of Innovation

In the realm of decentralized technology, Kusama took center stage in July 2021
with successful deployment of its first parachain slot auctions. Known as
Polkadot's "canary network", the upshot of these auctions signaled a pivotal
shift in blockchain technology.

## Kusama Leverages OpenGov For Significant Advances

In their mission to democratize access to blockchain technology, Kusama has
exemplified a pioneering spirit by instituting remarkable governance changes.
When the community voted to upgrade the Statemine parachain in late July, a
significant expansion in Kusama's capabilities ensued. This upgrade allowed for
permissionless creation of assets and non-fungible tokens (NFTs) on the Kusama
network, unlocking new avenues for developers.

## Epic Parachain Auction Outcome Reinforces Kusama’s Growth

July witnessed the culmination of hotly contested parachain auctions,
strategically designed to enhance blockchain scalability. Karura emerged as the
triumphant winner of the inaugural slot, a testament to Kusama's impressive
infrastructure, which saw Karura producing blocks within three hours of securing
the slot. Spinoff projects Moonriver and Shiden also secured significant
support, underlining the varied appeal of Kusama's offerings - from smart
contract platforms to NFT infrastructure.

## Technical Developments Pave the Way for Cross-Chain Communication

Undoubtedly, one of July's most thrilling developments was the unveiling of
Kusama's cross-chain messaging capabilities. This feature allows for seamless
transfer of information between the different parachains and the relay chain,
ushering in a new era of interconnected blockchain systems.

## Kusama’s KSM Token Records Soaring Market Performance

In step with the exciting auction events, Kusama’s native token, KSM, saw a
marked surge in value. As fervor for the crowdloan campaigns driving the
parachain bids increased, so too demand for KSM, directly leading to a value
increase of over 170% between the second and third auction results.

## Thriving Developer Ecosystem Boosts Kusama's Prospects

The third quarter of 2021 saw a flurry of developmental activity across the
Kusama ecosystem. As new parachains were successfully launched, developers
sought to harness Kusama's interoperable framework. With lower entry barriers
compared to Polkadot, Kusama became an attractive testbed for innovative
blockchain applications. Kilt Protocol, focusing on self-sovereign identity
solutions, is one of many projects slated to participate in future auctions,
confirming Kusama's status as an enticing growth ecosystem.

## Looking Forward

As Kusama moves beyond this pivotal month of July, the cryptocurrency ecosystem
eagerly anticipates the continued development and innovation that Kusama
promises. Additional parachain auctions are expected, and the growing list of
projects that choose to build on Kusama solidifies its position as a significant
player in the blockchain arena. With its dynamic approach to evolving
decentralized technologies, Kusama is set to choreograph a riveting future of
global blockchain scalability and interoperability.
