# Kusama News - October 2022

# Kusama Powers Ahead: Innovations Define October's Turbulence

By Meg Millis, Finance Editor

In the face of wider cryptocurrency market upheavals, Kusama, known as
Polkadot's "wild cousin", significantly advanced its development. Changes abound
across sectors, including governance, technical upgrades, and growth in
parachain auctions.

## Trailblazing the OpenGov Pathway

By Andrew Gettis, Governance Affairs

October saw significant shifts in Kusama's governance. A major focus, the
proposal of 'Making Kusama Chaotic Again', stirred discussions within the
community. The consideration involves initiatives designed to cement Kusama's
unique place as a hub for innovations in a world powered by blockchain.

The keyword is differentiation—Kusama aims for its identity to pivot uniquely
amidst the Polkadot community. A specific objective is the introduction of
advanced on-chain randomness. The anticipation is high as these progressive
innovations shape Kusama's experimental and cutting-edge nature.

## Parachains Surge: Infrastructure Expansion Rolls On

By Samira Tan, Blockchain Correspondent

October was marked by growth in Kusama's Parachain landscape with new projects
securing slots. InvArch's Tinkernet is a notable addition, aiming to advance
decentralized intellectual property management on the Kusama arena.

Existing chains, such as the Calamari Network, continued to refine their
services. This privacy-focused parachain has been working on enhancing its
plug-and-play privacy preservation protocol for DeFi applications.

## Kusama Tech Advancements: Progress Amid Uncertainty

By Lewis Barnett, Tech Editor

Along with governance changes and parachain growth, Kusama saw continual
technical enhancements. A key focus was on asynchronous backing aimed at
advancing parachain performance and scalability. The community hopes that these
updates will advance Kusama's capability within the broader Polkadot ecosystem.

## KSM Market Performance: Caution Amid Predictions

By Nancy York, Financial Analyst

The KSM’s market stability signaled resilience in October. Coin Price Forecast
suggests KSM can potentially hit $90 in 2023. But observers cautioned investors
to be mindful of the market's unpredictable nature.

## Developer Ecosystem: Nurturing Innovations

By Andy Carson, Tech Community

In the face of adversity, Kusama's community encouraged vibrant engagement. The
announcement of ShibaCon and the continuation of virtual events by the Polkadot
and Kusama Kuala Lumpur meetup group signaled the community's resilience.

Kusama's growing relevance was highlighted by plans from Tether, the major
stablecoin issuer, to launch USDT on Kusama's platform. But with the news of
Lido Finance considering ending its Kusama presence comes a reminder of the
complexity of maintaining a multichain presence.

## Looking Forward: Towards a Disruptive Future

By Meg Millis, Finance Editor

October's close saw Kusama preparing for future developments. The community
stands unique in its approach, striving for an experimental nature while
ensuring its relevance. With plans afoot for more privacy-focused features,
advanced cryptographic primitives, and experiments in decentralized governance,
an exciting road lies ahead.

Kusama remains committed to innovation amidst market uncertainties. Its vitality
depends on its adaptability to the evolving technical advancements and community
needs.

Undeniably, Kusama's ability to remain at the vanguard of blockchain development
will be under scrutiny as it navigates through the turbulent waters of the
crypto winter. Despite uncertainties, Kusama continues its journey, echoing the
resilience and vibrancy of its community.
