# Kusama News - June 2020

# Kusama Surges Forward: Parachain Auctions, Market Performance, and More

## June Sees a Flourishing Ecosystem for Polkadot's "Canary Network"

June 2020 has been a month of dynamic development for Kusama, Polkadot's
experimental "canary network". Filled with blossoming ecosystem activity, Kusama
has demonstrated its potential as innovative playground for blockchain
technology, while achieving significant milestones in governance, technological
enhancements, and community engagement.

## OpenGov Implementation: Kusama Governance in Motion

June ushered in a period of focus and scrutiny upon Kusama's governance
structure, recognized as more agile and daring in comparison to Polkadot. The
network achieved a crucial leap, transitioning to a full Proof-of-Stake (PoS)
consensus mechanism, with developers and validators collaborating to optimize
its Nominated Proof-of-Stake (NPoS) system.

Parachain functionality that enhances scalability and interoperability of the
network was implemented. "Kusama's parachain implementation is proceeding at a
rapid pace, bringing us closer to a fully functional multi-chain ecosystem,"
uttered Dr. Gavin Wood, founder of Polkadot and Kusama.

## Parachain Auctions: Blockchain Growth Initiatives

Kusama excited the market with the announcement of upcoming parachain slot
auctions offering an opportunity for projects to secure a slot on the Kusama
network and deploy their unique blockchain. Ready to lock in their KSM tokens
for the parachute bid, even in the absence of a precise date, multiple projects
have become immensely motivated to solidify their place in the Kusama and
Polkadot ecosystems.

"We've been building on Substrate and closely observing Kusama's development,
therefore, the parachain auctions represent a decisive stride toward introducing
our DeFi solutions to the Kusama ecosystem," stated Bette Chen, co-founder of
Acala Network.

## Technical Developments: A New Wave of Innovation

Developer activity on Kusama surged throughout June. The loose environment has
lured projects aiming to test revolutionary ideas. Kusama Treasury approved
several grants for diverse projects.

"Hackusama, our upcoming event, was organized to say to developers: come
construct Web3's future with us; we're thrilled to spot innovative projects
stemming from this initiative," claimed Logan Saether, Technical Educator at
Web3 Foundation.

## Market Performance: KSM Tokens On The Rise

Kusama's progress reflected in its market performance as the KSM token
appreciated in value throughout June; trading volumes magnified as Kusama's
potential as a testbed for Polkadot was recognized by increasingly larger
audience.

Cryptocurrency analyst Maria Cryptonez observed, "Kusama's price action reflects
a growing confidence in the project's fundamentals, leading to a surge in
interest in Kusama."

## Developer Ecosystem: Making Headlines

Chainlink and Kusama-native DEX Karura made strides in their project
development; Robonomics, an IoT and robotics platform, presented a
proof-of-concept for controlling drones via the Kusama network. Blockchain
luminary, Ethereum co-founder Vitalik Buterin remarked, "Projects like Kusama
are pushing the boundaries of blockchain scalability and interoperability."

## Looking Forward: Exciting Times Ahead

Kusama is primed for growth â€“ we anticipate parachain auctions, continual
refinement of governance mechanisms, and the Hackusama event. "Kusama is
entering a critical phase. We're laying groundwork for a truly scalable and
interoperable blockchain ecosystem," stated Dr. Gavin Wood.

There was no shortage of excitement for Kusama in June 2020, as it solidified
its crucial role in the emerging Web3 landscape. Kusama's ongoing successes and
challenges will undoubtedly shape the future of blockchain technology, making
way for a new era of decentralized applications and services.
