# Kusama News - September 2020

# "Kusama Canaries Sing Louder in BlockChain Territory"

Emerging from Polkadot’s experimental blockchain, Kusama has taken a massive
leap this September. Noteworthy milestones such as blossoming market
performance, accelerated development activity and the growing ecosystem have
placed Kusama firmly on the map of significant players in the blockchain
landscape.

## "OpenGov Implementation: Kusama Rises to New Heights"

Offering a testing ground for Polkadot’s new features and updates, Kusama
continues to add value to the process by ensuring robust implementation on
Polkadot’s main network. In September, the governance mechanism demonstrated
active roles in processing proposals, updates, and key upgrades, validating its
usefulness in real-world testing.

## "Parachain Auctions: Growth Spurs on Blockchain Development"

Teams lured by Kusama’s ease of deploying parachains have driven blockchain
expansion with a flurry of experimental projects and startups. In September,
several Hackusama competitors were observed exploring opportunities to launch
their successful initiatives as full Parachains on Kusama. This active interest
in Parachain development points to the promising future of a diverse and robust
ecosystem.

## "Technical Developments: Networking into the Future"

Kusama pushed the boundaries of blockchain infrastructural development. Its
focus on enhancing interoperability, scalability, and security led to
significant growth and maturation of the network, paving the way to support an
increasing load of decentralised applications and parachains.

## "Market Performance: KSM Token Soars on the Market"

Kusama’s native token, KSM has been gathering pace with a stunning surge of over
540% from its starting point earlier in the year. Traders and investors are
keenly following KSM's appreciating value, sparked mainly by the successful
technical advancements, its relationship with Polkadot, and growing interest
from institutional and retail investors alike.

## "Developer Ecosystem: Building Momentum Faith through Innovation"

Kusama’s seven-week Hackusama hackathon had participation in droves, almost
touching the 500 mark. The event encouraged builders to design tools to
facilitate Kusama development, proving the increasing interest of the developer
community. At the same time, the winning Russian team, "Unique Network", plans
to launch a fully operational NFT chain on Kusama, highlighting the event's
real-world impact.

## Looking Forward

Kusama's soaring trajectory has cemented its position both on Polkadot's scheme
of things and its value in the broader blockchain industry. With key periods
coming up in the remainder of 2020 and early 2021, Kusama is expected to show
further growth and adoption with parachain auctions and continued core protocol
development.

Kusama’s prosperity is not only reinforcing the faith in the Polkadot ecosystem
but also validating the viability of innovative governance models and
multi-chain architecture. As a prominent cryptocurrency engineer, Col Jung puts
it, "Kusama is Polkadot's testing sandbox, founded by Ethereum’s smart contracts
brain, Gavin Wood, this 'Flock of blockchains' is one to watch."

In essence, this “canary network” is not just a testnet. Garnering its unique
identity in blockchain space through a vibrant community, innovative projects,
and tangible economic value, Kusama is ready to shake up the future of
blockchain technology, all while laying the foundation of Polkadot’s success.
